alright guys today we're gonna make some
meatloaf I've had people ask me to do a
meatloaf recipe for a while now meatloaf
there is all types of recipes out there
I'm gonna show you one of the ways I do
it for my recipe we're gonna need some
ground beef I'd recommend a pound and a
half to two pounds if you're gonna be
feeding you know four to six people if
you're only gonna be feeding one or two
people you can go with a pound I'm just
gonna be making a pound this will feed
actually up to four people really but
really you know it's if you want a big
serving just like two or three people
for a pound we're gonna make a sauce for
the top of it and in my sauce I add a
little bit of maple syrup
some people use brown sugar I choose to
use a little bit of maple syrup ketchup
of course a little bit of mustard I'm
gonna use some Grey Poupon that's what I
have at home but you can use almost any
type of mustard a little bit of mousse
to show your sauce for the meatloaf
itself we don't need all that much we
just need the meat the ground beef we
need an egg if you're doing two pounds
or a pound and a half or more you could
use two eggs I'm doing a pound here so
just keep in mind I'm using a pound if
you want to make more than a pound just
you know add a little bit more of each
ingredient I'm using about a half a cup
of finely chopped onion which mines
frozen I gotta let it defrost a little
bit here and then chop it up you need
some stuffing mix or bread crumbs
I prefer some stuffing mix need some
milk and some salt and pepper so let's
go ahead here and first make the sauce
alright for our sauce ketchup of course
is always used in meatloaf we're gonna
use about five to six tablespoons of
ketchup so let's go ahead here the first
one was kind of half emptied out so
that's one six there then about four
tablespoons maple syrup and I really
recommend you get real 100% maple syrup
as you can see here the ingredients just
maple syrup that's it if you go ahead
and get some cheaper
other type of syrup look at the
ingredients on this and as you can see
there's tons of ingredients there that's
not as good
you want to use 100% pure maple syrup if
you can so 4 tablespoons of this
and that about two tablespoons of
mustard so we'll go ahead here something
I'm just gonna estimate with the mustard
cuz I have to scoop this out my spoon
already has stuff in it something's
gonna estimate about two tablespoons and
then one tablespoon of Worcestershire
sauce and I'm just gonna guesstimate
again now go ahead and stir that all up
and this is gonna be the sauce that we
use at the end to cover up the meatloaf
and give it a nice top to taste it's
gonna be a really nice sweet but also
flavorful sauce so you end up with
something like that so now let's go
ahead and make the meatloaf okay so now
for the meatloaf I'm gonna be using 1
pound of ground beef get that out there
and then we're gonna be using 1 egg
also gonna be using a half a cup of
ketchup
now I'm gonna estimate guys like do this
a lot but measure it if you want half a
cup of ketchup and a half a cup of milk
again I'm estimating guys but if you
want to measure it go ahead and then
about a cup of breadcrumbs or stuffing
mix probably about good and then throw
in your onions about 1/2 cup of finely
chopped onions and then we're gonna want
about a teaspoon or so of salt and just
a little bit of pepper so I'm just gonna
estimate this about a teaspoon of salt
and then just like a quarter to a half
teaspoon pepper and then this you could
stir up don't stir it too long I'm gonna
just mix it up with my hands kind of
nasty so I'm gonna go to the sink after
I'm done with this but I find that with
my hands I can get everything mixed in
really good rather than with a spoon
that just kind of mixes it around this
way I'm kind of getting all the
breadcrumbs and everything mixed in
really good so yeah I'm gonna dirty
hands but I'll just wash them after so
don't stir it or mix it too much it'll
get shook combined and you might start
breaking up everything right it too much
so this is looking good now all we do
get my pan here now all we do is take it
put it in the pan and kind of shape it
and now you want to have your oven
heated up to 350 and we're gonna cook it
for about an hour and then what we're
gonna do is add this topping on mostly
later about 15 minutes before it's done
cooking we're gonna add most of this on
but I'm just gonna put a tiny bit on now
not too much just to get some of that
flavor going through there but we're
gonna top it off later with the majority
of the sauce ten minutes before it's
done cooking so now we're gonna put it
in a 350 degree oven for about an hour
and at about 45 to 50 minutes we're
gonna take it out and put on that extra
seasoning so let's go ahead and throw it
in the oven all right so here we go got
my meat loaf preheated to 350 degrees
and put it in there for 45 minutes like
I said and then we'll come back with 15
minutes left and throw that extra two
topping on
all right guys they're cooking for 45
minutes so now we got 15 minutes left we
have a total hour cook time now remember
I'm cooking one pound of beef if you
were cooking a pound and a half or two
pounds you'd probably want to cook this
for about an hour of 15 minutes to a to
an hour and a half of the most Raleigh
so put the majority of this time I might
not use it all because I've got plenty
here it looks like try to get it down
the sides I'll use a little more get it
down the sides and all over
and I'll throw it back in for the last
15 minutes
and there we have it after about an hour
of cooking we have the meatloaf duck
meatloaf done I'm going to give it a
second to cool off and then cut off a
piece and see how it turned out and here
we go here's our finished product as you
can see it's cooked fully through now if
you want you can use an oven thermometer
and you can get precise reading you want
this to be a hundred and sixty degrees
in the middle so if you have a
thermometer then you could test it out
I'll just go ahead and taste it here see
how it turned out it's probably really
hot still no it's really good really
good that top glaze tastes so good on
there so easy recipe there guys pretty
simple to make not too many ingredients
it turns out great every time you could
save this for a few days and microwave
it and it's always real good so if you
have any questions let me know we'll see
you guys later
happy cooking